proteus/logs/README.md, before:

# Logging Integrations

This module provides a generic interface to plug json-formatted logging into your python application.

## Generic Usage

First, create a logger object and add some log sources. Then log on a desired level directly using default handler:

```python
from proteus.logs import ProteusLogger
from proteus.logs.models import LogLevel

proteus_logger = ProteusLogger() \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO, is_default=True) \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_2', min_log_level=LogLevel.ERROR)

# INFO level, default log source

proteus_logger.info(template='Test message: {message}', message='important')

# ERROR level with exception

try:
    raise ValueError('Big boom')
except ValueError as ex:
    proteus_logger.error(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_2',
                         template='Test error message: {message}', message='failure',
                         exception=ex)
```

You can also use `Logger` instances directly:

```python
from proteus.logs import ProteusLogger
from proteus.logs.models import LogLevel

proteus_logger = ProteusLogger() \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO, is_default=True)

logger = proteus_logger.proteus_test_logger_1
```

### DataDog handler

In order to send logs to DataDog, use `DataDogApiHandler` when adding a log source. If you still want messages
in `stdout` or `stderr`, add `StreamHandler` on top:

```python
from logging import StreamHandler

from proteus.logs import ProteusLogger
from proteus.logs.models import LogLevel
from proteus.logs.handlers.datadog_api_handler import DataDogApiHandler

proteus_logger = ProteusLogger() \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO,
                    log_handlers=[DataDogApiHandler(), StreamHandler()], is_default=True)
```

Remember to set `DD_API_KEY`, `DD_APP_KEY` and `DD_SITE` environment variables before creating an instance
of `DataDogApiHandler()`.

Commit message:

Enabled fixed template for logs (#118)

proteus/logs/README.md, after:

# Logging Integrations

This module provides a generic interface to plug json-formatted logging into your python application.

## Generic Usage

First, create a logger object and add some log sources. Then log on a desired level directly using default handler:

```python
from proteus.logs import ProteusLogger
from proteus.logs.models import LogLevel

proteus_logger = ProteusLogger() \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO, is_default=True) \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_2', min_log_level=LogLevel.ERROR)

# INFO level, default log source

proteus_logger.info(template='Test message: {message}', message='important')

# ERROR level with exception

try:
    raise ValueError('Big boom')
except ValueError as ex:
    proteus_logger.error(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_2',
                         template='Test error message: {message}', message='failure',
                         exception=ex)
```

You can also use `Logger` instances directly:

```python
from proteus.logs import ProteusLogger
from proteus.logs.models import LogLevel

proteus_logger = ProteusLogger() \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO, is_default=True)

logger = proteus_logger.proteus_test_logger_1
```

### DataDog handler

In order to send logs to DataDog, use `DataDogApiHandler` when adding a log source. If you still want messages
in `stdout` or `stderr`, add `StreamHandler` on top:

```python
from logging import StreamHandler

from proteus.logs import ProteusLogger
from proteus.logs.models import LogLevel
from proteus.logs.handlers.datadog_api_handler import DataDogApiHandler

proteus_logger = ProteusLogger() \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO,
                    log_handlers=[DataDogApiHandler(), StreamHandler()], is_default=True)

# you can also add fixed parts to your log messages, for example add a job execution id:

my_job_id = '000-000-111'
owner = 'host-1'
proteus_logger = ProteusLogger(fixed_template={
    'running with job id {job_id} on {owner}': {
        'job_id': my_job_id,
        'owner': owner
    }
}, fixed_template_delimiter='|') \
    .add_log_source(log_source_name='proteus_test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.INFO,
                    log_handlers=[DataDogApiHandler(), StreamHandler()], is_default=True)

# messages emitted by the logger will look like this:
# a message is here | running with job id 000-000-111 on host-1
# another message is here | running with job id 000-000-111 on host-1
# ...
```

Remember to set `PROTEUS__DD_API_KEY`, `PROTEUS__DD_APP_KEY` and `PROTEUS__DD_SITE` environment variables before creating an instance
of `DataDogApiHandler()`.
