adapta/utils/README.md, before:

# adapta.utils
A set of utility functions that can be used in any python project.

## doze
The doze function is used to sleep for a given amount of time  (in seconds), in short intervals.

This is useful in environments when your process needs to sleep, but respond to SIGTERM/SIGINT as soon as they are received.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import doze

# Sleep for 5 seconds
elapsed_time_ns = doze(5)
print(f'Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): {elapsed_time_ns}')
```

Output:
```
Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): 5000000000
```

## session_with_retries
The session_with_retries function is used to provision an HTTP session manager with built-in retries.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import session_with_retries

# Provision an HTTP session manager with 4 retries
http_session = session_with_retries(retry_count=4)
```

## convert_datadog_tags
The convert_datadog_tags function is used to convert a dictionary of tags into the Datadog tag format.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import convert_datadog_tags

# Convert a tag dictionary to Datadog tag format
tags = {'environment': 'production', 'version': '1.0.0'}
datadog_tags = convert_datadog_tags(tags)
print(datadog_tags)
```

Output:
```
['environment:production', 'version:1.0.0']
```

## operation_time
The operation_time context manager is used to measure the execution time of a given operation.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import operation_time, doze

# Measure execution time of the doze function
with operation_time() as op:
    doze(5)

# Print execution time
print(f'Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): {op.elapsed}')
```

Output:
```
Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): 5000000000
```

## chunk_list
The chunk_list function is used to split a given list into a specified number of chunks.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import chunk_list

# Split a list of numbers into up to 4 chunks
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
chunks = chunk_list(numbers, 4)
print(chunks)
```

Output:
```
[[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9]]
```

### memory_limit:

Context manager to limit the amount of memory used by a process. On context exit, the memory limit is reset to the total memory available.

Parameters:
* memory_limit_percentage (optional): Percentage of total memory to limit usage to
* memory_limit_bytes (optional): Number of bytes to limit usage to

Raises:
* ValueError: If neither memory_limit_percentage or memory_limit_bytes is specified

Example Usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import memory_limit

with memory_limit(memory_limit_percentage=0.2):
    # Memory limited to 20% of total available
    # Do some stuff here
    # if the provided limit is exceeded, MemoryError will be raised and can be caught by client code
    pass
```

### runtime_metrics:

Decorator for logging method execution time and reporting function execution time to metric provider (e.g. DataDog).  

Notes:
* When using the decorator the wrapped function must take logger and metrics_provider as keyword arguments.
  * It is recommended to have decorated methods use `**kwargs` if logger and metric providers are not explicitly defined.
* Logger sends logs with `loglevel.DEBUG`.
* Run-time metrics are send in seconds. 

Parameters:
* `metric_name`: Type of method being wrapped. This will be used as a metric_name by the metric provider.
* `tag_function_name` (optional): If True function name will be added as additional metric_tag. Defaults to False.
* `metric_tags` (optional): Dictionary containing extra tags used by the metric provider.

Example Usage:

```python
from adapta.metrics.providers.datadog_provider import DatadogMetricsProvider
from adapta.logs import SemanticLogger
from adapta.logs.models import LogLevel
from adapta.utils import run_time_metrics


@run_time_metrics(metric_name='example')
def adder(number1, number2, logger=None, **_kwargs):
  result = number1 + number2
  logger.info('Sum of the numbers {result}', result=result)
  return result


@run_time_metrics(metric_name='update_message', log_level=LogLevel.INFO)
def upgrade_message(message, logger=None, metrics_provider=None, **_kwargs):
  message += ' : - )'
  logger.info(message)
  metrics_provider.gauge(metric_name="test_gauge", metric_value=1, tags={'env': 'test'})
  return message


provider = DatadogMetricsProvider(metric_namespace='test')
datadog_tags = {'source': 'wrapper'}
semantic_logger = SemanticLogger().add_log_source(log_source_name='test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.DEBUG,
                                                  is_default=True)

adder(5, 4, logger=semantic_logger, metrics_provider=provider, metric_tags=datadog_tags)
upgrade_message('Lorum Ipsum', logger=semantic_logger, metrics_provider=provider, metric_tags=datadog_tags)
```

## xmltree_to_dict_collection
This function is used to convert a XML source (supports both xml file and string) to a list of objects.

Parameters:
* `xml_source`: A valid XML string or a path to a valid XML file
* `node_type`: The type of each element in returned list, like `dict` or a class inheriting from `DataClassJsonMixin`

Example Usage:

* When input is a XML file, with path `/path/to/my/file`, and `node_type` is `dict`
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!-- Content of /path/to/my/file -->
<catalog>
   <book>book_name1</book>
   <book>book_name2</book>
</catalog>
```
```python
from pathlib import Path
from adapta.utils import xmltree_to_dict_collection

file_path = Path("/path/to/my/file")
converted_result = xmltree_to_dict_collection(file_path, dict)
print(converted_result)
```
Output:
```
[{'book': 'book_name1'}, {'book': 'book_name2'}]
```
* When input is a XML string and `node_type` is a customized class
```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from adapta.utils import xmltree_to_dict_collection
from dataclasses_json import DataClassJsonMixin

@dataclass
class ExampleNodeType(DataClassJsonMixin):
    """
    A node type example
    """
    book: str

xml_str = "<?xml version='1.0'?><catalog><book>book_name1</book><book>book_name2</book></catalog>"
converted_result = xmltree_to_dict_collection(xml_str, ExampleNodeType)
print(converted_result)
```
Output:
```
[ExampleNodeType(book='book_name1'), ExampleNodeType(book='book_name2')]
```
### rate_limit:

Decorator that allows users to rate limit the execution of a function.
This is useful if you need to limit calls on a client side.


Parameters:
* `limit`: A rate limit in [string notation](https://limits.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#rate-limit-string-notation) (e.g. ``1/second`` or ``1 per second``)
* `strategy`: A rate limiting algorithm to use. List of the available strategies can be found in the [limits](https://github.com/alisaifee/limits) repository documentation.
* `delay_func`: Function that called to delay the execution of the function. Defaults to `doze(1)`.

Example Usage:

```python
from adapta.utils import rate_limit
from adapta.utils import session_with_retries


@rate_limit(limit="2 per second")
def call_api(url, session):
    response = session.get(url)
    return response.json()

http_session = session_with_retries(retry_count=4)
for _ in range(10):
    call_api("https://example.com", http_session)
```

Commit message:

Add mention of the memory backend

adapta/utils/README.md, after:

# adapta.utils
A set of utility functions that can be used in any python project.

## doze
The doze function is used to sleep for a given amount of time  (in seconds), in short intervals.

This is useful in environments when your process needs to sleep, but respond to SIGTERM/SIGINT as soon as they are received.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import doze

# Sleep for 5 seconds
elapsed_time_ns = doze(5)
print(f'Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): {elapsed_time_ns}')
```

Output:
```
Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): 5000000000
```

## session_with_retries
The session_with_retries function is used to provision an HTTP session manager with built-in retries.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import session_with_retries

# Provision an HTTP session manager with 4 retries
http_session = session_with_retries(retry_count=4)
```

## convert_datadog_tags
The convert_datadog_tags function is used to convert a dictionary of tags into the Datadog tag format.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import convert_datadog_tags

# Convert a tag dictionary to Datadog tag format
tags = {'environment': 'production', 'version': '1.0.0'}
datadog_tags = convert_datadog_tags(tags)
print(datadog_tags)
```

Output:
```
['environment:production', 'version:1.0.0']
```

## operation_time
The operation_time context manager is used to measure the execution time of a given operation.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import operation_time, doze

# Measure execution time of the doze function
with operation_time() as op:
    doze(5)

# Print execution time
print(f'Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): {op.elapsed}')
```

Output:
```
Time elapsed (in nanoseconds): 5000000000
```

## chunk_list
The chunk_list function is used to split a given list into a specified number of chunks.

Example usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import chunk_list

# Split a list of numbers into up to 4 chunks
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
chunks = chunk_list(numbers, 4)
print(chunks)
```

Output:
```
[[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9]]
```

### memory_limit:

Context manager to limit the amount of memory used by a process. On context exit, the memory limit is reset to the total memory available.

Parameters:
* memory_limit_percentage (optional): Percentage of total memory to limit usage to
* memory_limit_bytes (optional): Number of bytes to limit usage to

Raises:
* ValueError: If neither memory_limit_percentage or memory_limit_bytes is specified

Example Usage:
```python
from adapta.utils import memory_limit

with memory_limit(memory_limit_percentage=0.2):
    # Memory limited to 20% of total available
    # Do some stuff here
    # if the provided limit is exceeded, MemoryError will be raised and can be caught by client code
    pass
```

### runtime_metrics:

Decorator for logging method execution time and reporting function execution time to metric provider (e.g. DataDog).  

Notes:
* When using the decorator the wrapped function must take logger and metrics_provider as keyword arguments.
  * It is recommended to have decorated methods use `**kwargs` if logger and metric providers are not explicitly defined.
* Logger sends logs with `loglevel.DEBUG`.
* Run-time metrics are send in seconds. 

Parameters:
* `metric_name`: Type of method being wrapped. This will be used as a metric_name by the metric provider.
* `tag_function_name` (optional): If True function name will be added as additional metric_tag. Defaults to False.
* `metric_tags` (optional): Dictionary containing extra tags used by the metric provider.

Example Usage:

```python
from adapta.metrics.providers.datadog_provider import DatadogMetricsProvider
from adapta.logs import SemanticLogger
from adapta.logs.models import LogLevel
from adapta.utils import run_time_metrics


@run_time_metrics(metric_name='example')
def adder(number1, number2, logger=None, **_kwargs):
  result = number1 + number2
  logger.info('Sum of the numbers {result}', result=result)
  return result


@run_time_metrics(metric_name='update_message', log_level=LogLevel.INFO)
def upgrade_message(message, logger=None, metrics_provider=None, **_kwargs):
  message += ' : - )'
  logger.info(message)
  metrics_provider.gauge(metric_name="test_gauge", metric_value=1, tags={'env': 'test'})
  return message


provider = DatadogMetricsProvider(metric_namespace='test')
datadog_tags = {'source': 'wrapper'}
semantic_logger = SemanticLogger().add_log_source(log_source_name='test_logger_1', min_log_level=LogLevel.DEBUG,
                                                  is_default=True)

adder(5, 4, logger=semantic_logger, metrics_provider=provider, metric_tags=datadog_tags)
upgrade_message('Lorum Ipsum', logger=semantic_logger, metrics_provider=provider, metric_tags=datadog_tags)
```

## xmltree_to_dict_collection
This function is used to convert a XML source (supports both xml file and string) to a list of objects.

Parameters:
* `xml_source`: A valid XML string or a path to a valid XML file
* `node_type`: The type of each element in returned list, like `dict` or a class inheriting from `DataClassJsonMixin`

Example Usage:

* When input is a XML file, with path `/path/to/my/file`, and `node_type` is `dict`
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!-- Content of /path/to/my/file -->
<catalog>
   <book>book_name1</book>
   <book>book_name2</book>
</catalog>
```
```python
from pathlib import Path
from adapta.utils import xmltree_to_dict_collection

file_path = Path("/path/to/my/file")
converted_result = xmltree_to_dict_collection(file_path, dict)
print(converted_result)
```
Output:
```
[{'book': 'book_name1'}, {'book': 'book_name2'}]
```
* When input is a XML string and `node_type` is a customized class
```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from adapta.utils import xmltree_to_dict_collection
from dataclasses_json import DataClassJsonMixin

@dataclass
class ExampleNodeType(DataClassJsonMixin):
    """
    A node type example
    """
    book: str

xml_str = "<?xml version='1.0'?><catalog><book>book_name1</book><book>book_name2</book></catalog>"
converted_result = xmltree_to_dict_collection(xml_str, ExampleNodeType)
print(converted_result)
```
Output:
```
[ExampleNodeType(book='book_name1'), ExampleNodeType(book='book_name2')]
```
### rate_limit:

Decorator that allows users to rate limit the execution of a function.
This is useful if you need to limit calls on a client side.

Currently, this decorator only supports the `memory://` backend.

Parameters:
* `limit`: A rate limit in [string notation](https://limits.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#rate-limit-string-notation) (e.g. ``1/second`` or ``1 per second``)
* `strategy`: A rate limiting algorithm to use. List of the available strategies can be found in the [limits](https://github.com/alisaifee/limits) repository documentation.
* `delay_func`: Function that called to delay the execution of the function. Defaults to `doze(1)`.

Example Usage:

```python
from adapta.utils import rate_limit
from adapta.utils import session_with_retries


@rate_limit(limit="2 per second")
def call_api(url, session):
    response = session.get(url)
    return response.json()

http_session = session_with_retries(retry_count=4)
for _ in range(10):
    call_api("https://example.com", http_session)
```
